{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f4\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Sans{\*\falt Arial};}{\f5\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105 Normal;}
{\*\cs15\snext15 Default Paragraph Font;}
{\*\cs16\snext16\cf9\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255 Internet Link;}
{\s17\sbasedon0\snext18\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1025\dbch\af7\afs24\loch\f4\fs28\lang4105 Heading;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sl276\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1025\dbch\af7\afs24\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105 Text Body;}
{\s19\sbasedon18\snext19\sl276\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1025\dbch\af7\afs24\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105 List;}
{\s20\sbasedon0\snext20\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\cf1\i\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1025\dbch\af7\afs24\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105 Caption;}
{\s21\sbasedon0\snext21\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1025\dbch\af7\afs24\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105 Index;}
{\s22\snext22\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105 DocumentMap;}
}{\*\generator LibreOffice/6.0.7.3$Linux_X86_64 LibreOffice_project/00m0$Build-3}{\info{\*\company DFO-MPO}{\author JRC}{\creatim\yr2019\mo6\dy5\hr15\min53}{\revtim\yr2019\mo6\dy18\hr13\min39}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}}{\*\userprops{\propname Operator}\proptype30{\staticval JRC}}\deftab720\deftab720
\hyphauto0\viewscale100
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse451\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\pgdscnxt0 Default Style;}}
\formshade{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc\htmautsp
{\*\ftnsep\chftnsep}\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105\sl252\slmult1\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang4105
One of the take-aways from the December workshop was that Jupyter notebooks are a potentially useful collaboration tool that can enable individuals in different places to work with common data streams, and share their notebooks so that others can modify them and adapt them to new questions.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105\sl252\slmult1\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang4105
At the end of the workshop I had an offline conversation with John about repeating some analyses I had previously done with CMIP5 data. I did not want to repeat the previous pattern of writing thousands of lines of IDL code that would be opaque to anyone but me. I wanted to do these analyses in a format that would facilitate collaboration and stimulate others to look at the data in new ways. In March I had the opportunity to take a "Python for Data Science" course, and have learned enough Python to make some beta versions of Jupyter notebooks for analyzing the state of ocean chemistry in CMIP5 and CMIP6 models. Many thanks to Jim Orr for making his mocsy code available as a Python package; this saved me a lot of time. And thanks to Andrew  Shao (whose knowledge of Python is aeons ahead of mine) for looking over the first draft and suggesting more effective approaches to a number of operations.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105\sl252\slmult1\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang4105
So I have two beta }{{\*\bkmkstart __DdeLink__10_2626414887}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang4105
notebooks}{{\*\bkmkend __DdeLink__10_2626414887}\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang4105
 here. One creates Taylor diagrams for aragonite saturation state on a range of depth horizons. There are 16 CMIP5 models; my idea is to sequentially add CMIP6 models to these diagrams as they become available, and to make them for other fields of interest or other depth strata depending on the questions people are interested in. The other notebook}{\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang4105
 }{\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang4105
makes global maps of aragonite saturation state }{\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang4105
on}{\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang4105
 a specific depth horizon. Again, it can be easily modified to whatever data field or depth stratum people think is important.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105\sl252\slmult1\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang4105
I have tried to make the notebooks as 'vanilla' as possible, i.e., to minimize the number of Python packages a user would have to have installed in order to work with them. The Taylor diagram uses a package called skill_metrics written by a guy named Peter Rochford (https://github.com/PeterRochford/SkillMetrics).}
\par \pard\plain \s0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105\sl252\slmult1\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang4105
One clear stumbling block is whether the notebooks can read remote data files e.g., from a web address. I don't yet know how to do this or whether it is even possible. The volume of data is relatively small (~100 MB for the 16 CMIP5 models plus the obs), so as a stopgap measure I can just put a tar file on my ftp site and people can download the input data to their local disk.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105\sl252\slmult1\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang4105
I preprocessed all of the CMIP5 model outputs to a common grid and a common time-mean (1986-2005) using cdo. Again, when I first did this for CMIP5 I wrote tons of "one off" IDL code to deal with the numerous exceptions and inhomogeneities in the data. My cdo scripts are also full of IF blocks and exception handling: they have to be, because the time periods are different for each model, and some models have unit errors or incomplete metadata. But the total number of lines of code is much smaller, and anyone with cdo installed can reproduce these calculations very quickly. Most importantly, all of the steps are documented and there are no 'hidden' intermediates: my scripts work directly on the raw CMIP5 files downloaded from the ESG and output directly the files that are read by the notebooks.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105\sl252\slmult1\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang4105
There are some hokey shortcuts in this version (for the carbon chemistry I am using constant reference values for PO4 and Si concentration and dummy placeholder values for depth, pressure and latitude). I processed all of the data for PO4, Si and NO3; I just haven't had time yet to flesh out how to incorporate these into the calculation. Right now I just want to put these beta versions out 'in the wild'. Anyone who wants to adapt them for your own purposes, feel free. But please keep the rest of us informed about what you are doing, and periodically post versions of your notebooks for others to see. Ideally our goal should be that as different versions evolve, they shouldn't diverge more than is necessary to achieve the user's specific purpose (or if they diverge because you devise better ways to do something that is broadly used, please share it).}
\par \pard\plain \s0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105\sl252\slmult1\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
These notebooks are available at}
\par \pard\plain \s0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105\sl252\slmult1\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
https://gitlab.com/cmip6analysisjrc/carbon}
\par \pard\plain \s0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105\sl252\slmult1\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
I have made this an invitation only group for now. I may make it open at some point, but if you want access just let me know. The input data files are available at}
\par \pard\plain \s0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105\sl252\slmult1\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ftp://www.cccma.ec.gc.ca/pub/jchristian/CMIP5_20yearmeans_regridded}
\par \pard\plain \s0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105\sl252\slmult1\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105\sl252\slmult1\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Cheers}
\par \pard\plain \s0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105\sl252\slmult1\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105\sl252\slmult1\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Jim}
\par \pard\plain \s0\sl252\slmult1\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\sb0\sa160\ltrpar\cf1\kerning1\dbch\af7\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang4105\sl252\slmult1\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa160\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par }